documentation/Matlab_Conventions.md, before:

## Matlab Conventions

### Versioning for Matlab Files
S-function (level 1) blocks are proposed to be used to reference Matlab files so they can be versioned in Git

#### Background
- Older versions allowed providing external '.m' file for the *Matlab Function* block in Simulink
- Newer versions are shifting towards the embedded model, where Matlab code is complied for execution on test hardware

Naming conventions in Simulink for Matlab files changed after 2011A:
- http://www.goddardconsulting.ca/simulink-using-embedded-matlab.html

#### S-Functions

- [S-Function Doc with Examples](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/matlab-s-functions-1.html)
- [S-Function Features](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/sfg/s-function-features.html)
- [Writing Level 2 Matlab S-Functions](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/sfg/writing-level-2-matlab-s-functions.html)
- [Level 1 versus Level 2 S-Functions](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/sfg/level-1-versus-level-2-s-functions.html)
- [Types of Sample Time](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/ug/types-of-sample-time.html)

##### Level 1 vs Level 2

Level 1 S-Functions only support a single input and output (See S-Function-Features).
Level 1 S-Functions appear to be suitable for continuous sample time, while Level 2 S-Functions are required for discrete sample time

#### Current Status
- With the help of Narendra Gollu I am looking into whether the old behavior can be achieved easily

### Versioning for Libraries
- Saving files as libraries and following the existing use cases in the documentation will allow robust versioning and collaboration workflow

### Unit Testing

#### Simulink Unit Testing

##### Model Referencing

Model Referencing shall be used to test all libraries for expected behavior. 

Model Referencing with Libraries is a little more complicated

1. Create a Model in which you drag the Library
2. Right-click the library block in the Model 

Start here:

- http://www.mathworks.com/videos/getting-started-with-model-referencing-68918.html
- http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/ug/creating-a-model-reference.html 

#### Background
- Once a library is created, it can be unit tested
- A reference model shall be created, to which the library will be encapsulated
- A Test_Model shall be created which includes the reference model, to which test data can be asserted, and output data can be tested

- Model Referencing
    - Reference Model
    - Library Model

### Resources
- http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/slref/model.html

Commit message:

Added Matlab wrapper test for thrust data import - run thrust_curve_test_ml

documentation/Matlab_Conventions.md, after:

## Matlab Conventions

### Importing Data

Tabulated input data is relied upon to drive the simulation (see *Dynamic Parameters*). The following configuration is investigated to support this smoothly

[Load Signal Data for Simulation](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/import-data.html)

[Importing Signal Data in Simulink](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/ug/importing-signal-data-in-simulink.html)

[Import Data Structures](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/ug/importing-data-structures-to-a-root-level-input-port.html)

#### From File 
The *From File* block in Simulink allows incremental loading of data 

> The From File block reads data from a MAT-file and outputs the data as a signal. The data is a sequence of samples. Each sample consists of a time stamp and an associated data value.

[From File](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/slref/fromfile.html)

##### Mat-File Versions

Data is read incrementally from Mat-File versions 7.3 and above
[Mat-file Versions](http://www.mathworks.com/help/matlab/import_export/mat-file-versions.html)


#### nD Lookup Tables

#### Specifying Time Data


[Specifying Time Data in Simulink](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/ug/importing-data-structures-to-a-root-level-input-port.html#bsuwoyk)

### Versioning for Matlab Files
S-function (level 1) blocks are proposed to be used to reference Matlab files so they can be versioned in Git

#### Background
- Older versions allowed providing external '.m' file for the *Matlab Function* block in Simulink
- Newer versions are shifting towards the embedded model, where Matlab code is complied for execution on test hardware

Naming conventions in Simulink for Matlab files changed after 2011A:
- http://www.goddardconsulting.ca/simulink-using-embedded-matlab.html

#### S-Functions

- [S-Function Doc with Examples](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/matlab-s-functions-1.html)
- [S-Function Features](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/sfg/s-function-features.html)
- [Writing Level 2 Matlab S-Functions](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/sfg/writing-level-2-matlab-s-functions.html)
- [Level 1 versus Level 2 S-Functions](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/sfg/level-1-versus-level-2-s-functions.html)
- [Types of Sample Time](http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/ug/types-of-sample-time.html)

##### Level 1 vs Level 2

Level 1 S-Functions only support a single input and output (See S-Function-Features).
Level 1 S-Functions appear to be suitable for continuous sample time, while Level 2 S-Functions are required for discrete sample time

#### Current Status
- With the help of Narendra Gollu I am looking into whether the old behavior can be achieved easily

### Versioning for Libraries
- Saving files as libraries and following the existing use cases in the documentation will allow robust versioning and collaboration workflow

### Unit Testing

#### Simulink Unit Testing

##### Model Referencing

Model Referencing shall be used to test all libraries for expected behavior. 

Model Referencing with Libraries is a little more complicated

1. Create a Model in which you drag the Library
2. Right-click the library block in the Model 

Start here:

- http://www.mathworks.com/videos/getting-started-with-model-referencing-68918.html
- http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/ug/creating-a-model-reference.html 

#### Background
- Once a library is created, it can be unit tested
- A reference model shall be created, to which the library will be encapsulated
- A Test_Model shall be created which includes the reference model, to which test data can be asserted, and output data can be tested

- Model Referencing
    - Reference Model
    - Library Model

### Resources
- http://www.mathworks.com/help/simulink/slref/model.html
